In the last section we completed our loggin form but now we need to make sure that when a user logs
in.
We actually do something about it that function on loggin success that we implement right here is called
whenever a user successfully logs in.
So we couldn't use that as a place to notify the rest of our app that hey these are just signed in show
a different screen.
Or do you want to do.
And that would definitely be one possible solution.
However there is another solution that we can use as well.
One that is a little bit more magic but it's certainly going to lead to some simpler code.
So let's talk about what that second solution is all over the place.
We've been calling this method on the firebase library of firebase thought off.
Right we've been calling the thing right here and we've seen two methods tied to it.
Right.
So when I call fire based on off clearly it returns an object with some number of methods like sign
in with a password and create user with email and password as well.
So that object has similar number of methods tied to it.
This object that gets returned from fire based on auth has another method called on off state changed.
This is a handler for the event.
We can pass in a function that will be called whenever the authentication state of our user changes
like if they log in or they log out.
I suggest that we use this as our place for figuring out whether or not the users Longet logged in or
logged out at any point in time and update our app appropriately.
OK so we're going to use this new event handler that is on the fire based on object to figure out whether
or not the user is signed in or signed out to do so we need a place to locate this code.
We've got to add some code in our application that's going to be implement this event handler.
I just mentioned I think the best place to do that will be inside of our app component and most specifically
component will mount.
So inside of component will mount out in a function call we call firebase.
Auth dot on off state change and this is a function an event handler handler right here that accepts
a function.
So whenever the user signs in or signs out you know as many times as they might do as we have our application
opened this fadder a function right here will be called.
So if the user signs in great we will know inside this function if they sign out fantastic that's just
as good.
This function right here at the federal function will be called with a single argument that we're going
to call user.
So when the authentication state changes if the user is signed in this user argument right here will
be an object that represents the user.
But if they signed out it will be no or undefined.
So we can figure it we can look at this argument right here to decide whether or not the user has signed
in when this on all state changes.
So I feel like that kind of key thing here that's kind of confusing about this concept is that this
is one event handler right here for handling either signing in or signing out.
So either one our federal function right here will be called and it's solely based on the presence of
this argument right here that we're going to figure out whether or not the user just signed in or signed
at now I want to pause for a second and look back at our mockup for this application.
We had said that when the user is not signed in we should show them the log in form over here on the
left hand screen.
And that's definitely what we're doing right now.
You know we're always showing them the log on screen.
But as soon as they are logged in we want to show them not the form anywhere we want to show them just
a button to sign out.
So when a user signs in we want to show them the sign out button.
And then when they're not I want to show them the log in form put it another way we need to conditionally
show some GSX on the device.
Right.
We want to conditionally do one thing or the other and we want to reregister between the two.
So hopefully that sounds familiar.
This is something we just did with our spinner and the log in form and we solved it by using component
level state.
So we will add a new piece of state to our application specifically the app component that will track
whether or not the user is logged in.
So we will add a new piece of state in here.
Let's initialize our state object.
I think that we will default or we will create a new property here called logged in and by default let
logged in be just false.
So by default I mean I assume you are not logged into our application.
So now inside of our callback right here we will look at the user argument to it and if there is a user
will say this set States logged in is true.
So now you are logged in.
Else this set States logged in false like so.
OK.
So either you are logged in or you are not logged in.
We could probably condense this to just like set the user object on saw in our state object right.
We could I got a little bit of typo there I apologize on that.
We had capitalized I logged in like so.
So we could pretty much be you think and see why aren't we just setting the user object on our state.
Well there is a good reason for that and we'll see exactly why very shortly.
OK.
So are out component right now.
We'll now understand whether or not the user is currently signed in or signed out to our application
it does this by watching this on state change callback from the firebase library.
So whenever the user toggles between one or the other it will Kalas federal function and we will flip
our state variable of logged in from either true to false like True or False True False True False.
Let's use this piece of state now in the next section to figure out what content we want to show on
the screen.